I realized it when I was 11 years old.

It was flawed. The mathematics that I was learning in school was flawed. This was the only year when I had finally begun to understand maths. After seeing my terrible grades, my father had took it upon himself to teach me. That was when he had stopped beating me up.

He was a strict teacher but he taught well. I had started to love maths. It was easy, like a game. Sometimes, it was boring. Sometimes frustrating. But mostly, it was fun. It made me feel like home.

The way we saw numbers was illogical or rather incomplete. I found it irritating how we must use some of the ten different widely-accepted symbols arranged in a particular order to represent a quantity. When I started to understand equations with unknown variables a little, they felt beautiful. Much more beautiful than numbers. I'd be mildly irritated whenever I was close to a solution because that meant I had to substitute the variables with their quantities to get the final answer. I decided to do something about it.

I created a new method to represent quantities. I was done with numbers. People only used numbers because their teachers told them to. People here were banning old rituals but what about what matters the most? what about numbers? They are old. Stop using them.

Maybe no one really thought that numbers were old fashioned. That was the problem.

I decided to show my system of representing quantities to my father. I was afraid at first, but then realized how much he loved when I came up with a correct answer using a method different than his own. I had to be really careful not to piss him off, though. 

I went to him prepared with everything written in my book: description of my system, representations of various quantities, quick way to convert to and from the usual numbers and my numbers.

He was in his room sitting on a rocking chair blowing out smoke up towards the ceiling with a cigarette in his right hand and spectacles in his left one. The cigarette was finished about more than halfway through.

Hmm.. nothing new, I thought until I saw a bottle of alcohol beside the ashtray on the stool. His drunken mode was like an upgrade to his usual self. He'd beat me up harder whenever he'd drink.

I sometimes wished I had a mother too. Jake had told me once that his mother bought an icecream for him everyday and, also, his mother probably never hits him. I think. Anyway, I wanted icecreams too. I decided to get out for now and get an icecream. I still had some money left. I slowly turned around before he could notice and headed towards the door.

"What do you want, Tyler?"

Too late. I turned around and told him in a shaky voice what I think about the numbers everyone uses.

"What do you mean flawed?" he looked at me, his voice unnaturally calm. Calm is good. Unnatural but good.

"The way we do it is not exactly the best," I opened my notebook and showed him. "I created this system so that it's easi-"

He got up and smacked my face. I lost my balance and fell to the ground. Now that felt natural. My book lay at his feet and his spectacles beside it. The papers were crushed. Ughh... this was a mistake. I shouldn't have brought the book here with me. The folding marks on papers in notebooks always infuriated me. I'll have to tear a lot of them from this book.

"Damn it!" he shouted. "Damn you! I had promised her I wouldn't hit you again."

Not to hit me? I didn't get it. I felt a pang in my head. And promised who? I was shocked. I thought he had stopped beating me because I was getting better at maths. I didn't understand anything. I started to sweat a little.

I was pretty used to this experience. I knew what was going to happen now. He was going to kick me a little, then make me stand, then punch my face, then hold me against the wall and slap and punch some more. Considering the fact that he was drunk, he'd take longer for this session and hit me harder.

This was nothing new to me. I hated feeling weak. This time I was determined to control my feelings. I tried hard to focus. It would start with my breath. I won't give in this time. I concentrated on controlling my breath but couldn't hold it steady for more than three seconds. It got faster. Shit! I was lost. My heart sped up with it's usual blood pumping. I couldn't control anything. My hands were shaking involuntarily. The insides of my eyes started to ache a little. I couldn't take it anymore. I let out a sob then immediately held my tears.

"Get out." He said as he lifted up his spectacles and sat back with the lit cigarette still laying on the wooden floor. His face looked calm again.

"You think you can just insult everything that I've taught you? People have worked for this since generations and you think you can just piss on all their work, kid? Listen well, you are going to get this bullshit out of your head. Don't make me feel that I wasted my time teaching you. You have your exams next week. Get out before I kick your stupid face. Stop being such a burden to me." he was looking at the ceiling.

I got up and left the room. Then ran outside the house. I had to go somewhere no one could see or hear me. I went behind our house below the unfinished bridge and sat down. I cried a lot that day.

------

The exams were easy. I did well in all subjects for the first time. I was happy.

It was in biology class when the result sheets of the exam were distributed. I had failed in math. 

Usually I'd pass with bad grades. This was the first time I had failed. I didn't understand why. I had studied well and answered each question correctly. I asked everyone about their scores. None had failed. I was terrified. My father would know. My father will find out. I can't go home.

I dug my bag and opened the book with it's crumpled papers. Before the exams, I was going to tear off the folded pages that irritated me but I just couldn't. I didn't really want to. I had given up on my system of representing quantities much earlier but still I couldn't completely let go. Everything about the system was neatly written in that book and I rarely wrote anything neatly.

During the lunch break, I went outside the school and threw the book in the river. I stayed outside leaning against the railing of that bridge and wondered what went wrong. I believed that I had wrote all the solutions perfectly. Does that mean that I didn't really understand? No, that can't be true. Maths is logical. I solved all problems logically. Maybe I wasn't thinking properly. Am I stupid? Maybe what I thought was logical isn't exactly logical.

I guess I was right all along. I am too stupid for maths. I remember how I had screamed at my father when he was beating me after showing him my previous result's sheet. I had told him I am stupid. I had told him that no matter how hard I tried I can't do it. That was the day he had started teaching me. Yet my solutions were wrong, I had to accept it. I am dumb. He was a good man and he was right. I am a waste of space. There is something wrong with me. Maybe I am just a bad person and there's nothing I can do about it.

I stared at the flowing river hoping to perhaps see my book again. The waves looked so elegant and comfortable that I wanted to throw something just to disrupt the pattern. The green colour of the river made me feel incredibly peaceful.

"Heyo!" A girl shouted. "What's up, dude? Want a kit kat?"

"No, thanks!" I smiled at her. She was someone from my class. I couldn't remember her name. She had the reputation of being late in class all the time.

"Come, let's go! The computer class must have already started by now, we're late haha!"

I didn't want to go. I couldn't think of an excuse to say to her so I just went along with her. She talked a lot along the way. Apparently, she has to drop her brother from her home to his school every day.

We reached fifteen minutes late. The instructor shouted at us.

I grabbed a seat and switched on one of the computers. I didn't know what we were supposed to do and I was too afraid to ask the instructor. I asked the boy sitting next to me and did as he said. I didn't really get what we were doing. The boy beside me had written 'Introduction to Programming' in his notebook. I just did what everyone was doing: displaying numbers on the screen. I entered a few and then stopped. Whatever number I typed was just being printed again on the next line. It was esthetically the worst font I had ever seen.

I was bored. I took out my notebook and out of habit just started drawing random things.

I was dumb. Doesn't matter what I learn, I'll always stay dumb. The class was starting to get noisy. I was worried about what'd happen when I reach home. It was starting again. My breath started getting faster. I felt my heart beating faster. I can't cry here, I thought and surprisingly succeeded to control my breathing.

I quickly tried to think of something to distract me and looked at the book. I had drawn a really good circle. By good, I mean smooth. I am sure the circumference to diameter ratio wasn't pi.

My head was again slowly drifting back to my father. I felt something in my throat. I was gonna cry. No, I have to control myself.

Pi.. what's so special about pi? I hated it. It's an irrational number so it can't be represented as a ratio of two numbers and that was because of the numbers we used. My system doesn't even have irrational numbers. Every quantity can be represented perfectly. Using it for addition and subtraction required more work, but multiplication and division were exceptionally easy. I had found the formula to find the nth prime number and even had a way to find all the prime factors of a number.

I hated pi.

The instructor was looking at me. I acted like writing something on the book, then kept it aside and started typing on the computer. I didn't know what I was going to type. I decided to try out typing pi on the computer. Not the usual pi. The pi using my system. I had to rely on using letters instead of numbers due to the nature of the system. As soon as I pressed enter, the CPU beeped. I was terrified.

Everyone was looking at me now. The girl who had walked with me came towards my computer.

"That is soo cool!" she pointed at my screen. I hadn't noticed it, but the last two 'digits'(I hadn't figured out what to call it) of the pi I wrote were light green unlike other digits that were white. The instructor walked towards me, other students too were getting off their seats. My palms started sweating. I didn't know what to do. I hoped I hadn't broken anything. The instructor looked at the screen for a while.

"Good!" she smiled. "Everyone learn from him, you too should experiment. Try out different things, don't be afraid. That's how you'll learn."

She walked away. Some other students came towards me and asked me what I had done. I showed them and typed it again. The computer beeped. They all looked impressed. I was impressed too. I decided to just type the letters that were green to see what happens so I typed 'if' and it beeped again.

"Ooooh!" everyone said together.

I was feeling really strange. I liked it.

A few minutes later, the maths teacher called me outside the lab. She told me that everything that I had written for her maths exam was incorrect. I knew that. I didn't know why. She accused me of cheating because my answers were right. As soon as she said that, I understood everything. I was satisfied that my answers were right. That meant my reasoning was correct.

When I went home, I directly went to my father. I didn't cry. I showed him my results. I told him I'll do better next time. I expected him to hit me. He didn't. I didn't ask him about the scars on his left wrist.

I did better in the next exam. I felt I understood how the world worked. I was angry at the maths teacher. I was angry at my father. I wanted to hate all people. I wanted to go away. But I realized I wanted something else more. I wanted to hear more 'Ooooh's from others.

For me, there were only two types of people: the controllers and the controlled. I could control the controllers by doing what they expected of me and the controlled were controlled by doing something unexpected.

I know what I have to do now, I thought as I tore off some folded pages in my notebook.

